## Advance Command

1. free - This command displays the total amount of free space available.
Example: free -m

2. at - Execute Commands Later: Run commands at a specified time. Example: echo "command" | at 15:30

3. ping - Network Connectivity: Check network connectivity to a host. Example: ping google.com

4. traceroute - Trace Route: Trace the route packets take to reach a host. Example: traceroute google.com

5. curl - Check Website Connectivity: Check if a website is up.
Example: curl -Is https://example.com | head -n 1

6. dig - Domain Information Groper: Retrieve DNS information for a domain.
Example: dig example.com

7. hostname - Display or Set Hostname: Display or change the system's hostname.
Example: hostname

8. who - Display Users: Display currently logged-in users.
Example: who

9. useradd - Add User: Create a new user account.
Example: useradd newuser

10. usermod - Modify User: Modify user account properties.
Example: usermod -aG groupname username

11. passwd - Change Password: Change user password.
Example: passwd username

12. sudo - Superuser Do: Execute commands as the superuser.
Example: sudo command

13. lsof - List Open Files: List open files and processes using them. Example: lsof -i :port

14. nc - Netcat: Networking utility to read and write data across network connections.
Example: echo "Hello" | nc host port

15. scp - Secure Copy Between Hosts: Copy files securely between hosts. Example: scp file.txt user@remote_host:/path

16. sed - Stream Editor: Text manipulation using regex.
Example: sed 's/old/new/g' file.txt

17. awk - Text Processing: Pattern scanning and text processing.
Example: awk '{print $2}' file.txt

18. cut - Text Column Extraction: Extract specific columns from text. Example: cut -d"," -f2 file.csv

19. sort - Sort Lines: Sort lines of text files.
Example: sort file.txt

20. diff - File Comparison: Compare two files and show differences. Example: diff file1.txt file2.txt

21. ls - List Files and Directories: List the contents of a directory.
Example: ls -la

22. history - This command is used to view the previously executed command.
Example: history 10

23. cron - Schedule Tasks: Manage scheduled tasks.
Example: crontab -e

24. ssh-keygen - This command is used to generate a public/private authentication key pair. This process of authentication allows the user to connect remote server without providing a password.
Example: ssh-keygen

25. nslookup - This stands for “Name server Lookup”. This is a tool for checking DNS hostname to Ip or Ip to Hostname. This is very helpful while troubleshooting.
Example: nslookup google.com

26. tr - For translating or deleting characters.

These commands cover a wide range of tasks that are essential for DevOps professionals working with Linux systems. Remember to always refer to the man pages (man command) for more detailed information about each command and its options.
Example:cat crazy.txt | tr "[a-z]" "[A-Z]"

27. tnc - This is “Test Network Connection” command. Mostly used command while troubleshooting. It displays diagnostic information for a connection.
Example:tnc google.com --port 443

28. w - Displays current user.

29. su - Switch User.
Example: su - root

30. ac(All Connections) — Total connect time for all users or specified users.
Example: ac john
